Rewrite `ScoreV1/osu!` using ground truth information (#7525)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Gameplay/Score/ScoreV1/osu!/en.md

# ScoreV1 (osu!)

*See also: [osu! judgement system](/wiki/Gameplay/Judgement/osu!)*

In **ScoreV1**, each of the object types in osu! is scored slightly differently. However, the total score is a simple sum of points awarded for each individual object in the beatmap.

The rules for scoring each individual object type are outlined in the sections below.

## Hit circles

Each hit circle is assigned a numerical point value using the formula below:

`Score = Hit value * (1 + (Combo multiplier * Difficulty multiplier * Mod multiplier / 25))`

where:

- The *hit value* is the numerical value of the hit circle judgement (50, 100, or 300).
- The *combo multiplier* is equal to (combo before this hit - 1) or 0, whichever is higher.

> - The *difficulty multiplier* is a value specific to the beatmap being played. The exact formula to compute it is given in the next subsection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The *difficulty multiplier* is a value specific to the beatmap being played. See the [below section](#difficulty-multiplier) for the exact formula to compute it.
```

- The *mod multiplier* is the total multiplier of the set of active mods.

### Difficulty multiplier

The **difficulty multiplier** is equal to an older version of star rating for the beatmap being played. It can be calculated via the following formula:

`Difficulty multiplier = Round((HP Drain + Circle Size + Overall Difficulty + Clamp(Hit object count / Drain time in seconds * 8, 0, 16)) / 38 * 5)`

Note that game modifiers (like Hard Rock or Easy, which change circle size, for instance) do not affect the difficulty multiplier, as the original values of the variables are always used in the formula above regardless of which mods are enabled.

## Sliders

> Each slider as a whole produces a 50, 100, or 300 judgement, based on the proportion of slider parts (namely, the slider head, slider tail, slider ticks, and slider repeats) hit. This judgement is converted to a score value using the same method that hit circles use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each slider as a whole produces a 50, 100, or 300 judgement, based on the proportion of slider parts hit (namely, the slider head, slider tail, slider ticks, and slider repeats). This judgement is converted to a score value using the same method that hit circles use.
```

> Additionally, elements of the slider grant score in an independent fashion:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, elements of the slider grant score in an independent fashion, unaffected by any bonuses or multipliers:
```

- Each slider tick hit grants 10 points.
- Each slider repeat or slider tail hit grants 30 points.

> The point values above are not affected by any bonuses or multipliers.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Spinners

Each spinner as a whole produces a 50, 100, or 300 judgement, based on the ratio of rotations performed to rotations required to complete the spinner. This judgement is converted to a score value using the same method that hit circles use.

> Additionally, the spinner grants bonus points:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The spinner also grants additional bonus points, unaffected by any other bonuses or multipliers:
```

- Each full spin before the spinner is completed grants 100 points.
- After the spinner is completed, full spins grant an additional 1,000 points, for a total of 1,100 points altogether per spin.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The point values above are not affected by any bonuses or multipliers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# ScoreV1 (osu!)

*See also: [osu! judgement system](/wiki/Gameplay/Judgement/osu!)*

In **ScoreV1**, each of the object types in osu! is scored slightly differently.
However, the total score is a simple sum of points awarded for each individual object in the beatmap.

The rules for scoring each individual object type are outlined in the sections below.

## Hit circles

Each hit circle is assigned a numerical point value using the formula below:

`Score = Hit value * ((Combo multiplier * Difficulty multiplier * Mod multiplier) / 25)`

where:

- The *hit value* is the numerical value of the hit circle judgement (50, 100, or 300).

> - The *combo multiplier* is equal to (combo before this hit - 1) or 0, whichever is higher.

Reviewer: so with a combo of 0 or 1 (start of beatmap or after each combo reset) you get 0 points for the next object?

Author: No, this is just wrong. Clerical error when touching the old (correct) formula. Fixed in https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/7525/commits/d2f28f879d4a17ee154bf25ca3c586d6f38a8621.

- The *difficulty multiplier* is a value specific to the beatmap being played. The exact formula to compute it is given in the next subsection.
- The *mod multiplier* is the total multiplier of the set of active mods.

### Difficulty multiplier

The **difficulty multiplier** is equal to an older version of star rating for the beatmap being played. It can be calculated via the following formula:

`Difficulty multiplier = Round((HP Drain + Circle Size + Overall Difficulty + Clamp(Hit object count / Drain time in seconds * 8, 0, 16)) / 38 * 5)`

Note that game modifiers (like Hard Rock or Easy, which change circle size, for instance) do not affect the difficulty multiplier, as the original values of the variables are always used in the formula above regardless of which mods are enabled.

## Sliders

> Each slider as a whole produces a 50, 100, or 300 judgement, based on the proportion of slider ticks hit. This judgement is converted to a score value using the same method that hit circles use.

Reviewer: > based on the proportion of slider ticks hit

not including the slider head, end and repeats?

Author: Including, but not sure how to word it nicely. The lazer term we use for this is "nested objects". Not sure it makes sense for the wiki.

Author: Have attempted to clarify in https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/7525/commits/3851987283121782c630f3947787e393ecbe9391, please check if it helps. Suggestions for alternatives welcome.

> Each slider as a whole produces a 50, 100, or 300 judgement, based on the proportion of slider parts (namely, the slider head, slider end, slider ticks, and slider repeats) hit. This judgement is converted to a score value using the same method that hit circles use.

Reviewer: may be worth clarifying what the proportions are, same for spinners

Author: Reason why I haven't done this is that I wasn't sure if that belongs in here or in the judgement article. I'm fine with including here if you are.

Reviewer: ah, you're right

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/7527
